- [Frank] In a microservices-based system,
call stacks can quickly get lost.
Enter into the picture tracing patterns.
Tracing is one of those things that, once you build it,
you'll regret not having it before that time.
Consider for a moment a monolithic system.
All code execution from edge to database call
was in a single process.
As such, a code trace will help you recreate the path
that that service call took.
In a microservices architecture, however,
that is gone because calls span processes
as well as network, not jut functions.
Tracing gives you a way to recreate the call stack
by injecting a trace identifier into every call.
The tracing identifier should be injected at the edge
and span all the way to the database call
or even into the database itself, if possible.
By spanning the stack, you can inject the trace ID
into logs and that will help you further diagnose issues.
By leveraging tracing, no call is ever lost,
as long as everyone honors the trace identifier.
Implementations of tracing is relatively straightforward.
First and foremost, use a standards-based approach.
I have worked in environments where a pattern was home-grown
and to be honest, it was painful.
Open standards allow you to use off-the-shelf tooling
to introspect your system.
The trace ID should be injected into the entry point
of your system, be it a browser, an edge service
or any other mechanism, even an ETL.
Every log message should embed the trace ID.
Open standards use headers,
so your logging functions should simply
pull it out of the header and drop it into a tag
on the log message using common taxonomy.
Leverage tracing tools in APM
can help you visualize the call stacks,
which can be helpful to many people
when that 2 a.m. page hits your phone.
As with logging in metrics, don't recreate the wheel.
There are very good patterns out there for systems
as a whole that all play nicely with microservices.
Just use what already exists.